my base concept for the game is you are a robot chassis moving through a city.  there's defined points on a branching path you can move along - think Mario Party, but moreso.
Opposing the player are other robots in the city causing havok. robots can have a variety of weapon systems with damage types, range, fire rates, and specific interactions with cover. robots also have armour, battery, means of locomotion, and other features with their own properties and characteristics.

so i'm thinking, all the robot components are represented by cards. each turn you (and your opponents) draw a hand of cards which you/they get to activate.
different kinds of weapons tend to target/damage different kinds of components more than others.
when an opposing robot is destroyed/disabled, you may scavenge it for component cards to add to your own deck. damaged components will work less effectively in specific ways depending on the damage. you can also take various kinds of scrap parts to carry separate from your main deck.
certain components will affect your carry capacity and how much of your capacity you're carrying will impact your speed (how many connected spaces you can move in a turn to chase/escape).
there will be stores/traders where you can exchange unwanted components and scrap for components you do want, as well as places you can do repairs and upgrades.
the world will be made up of zones of varying types (themed areas of the city) and danger ratings, which will affect the kinds of enemies and structures and resources available. there will be rules about the types and levels of zones that can be adjacent to each other and min/max danger rating zone types can be.
map should be pre-designed tiles to fill out zones, with zones and zone difficulty being procedurally generated from a seed. zones and zone tiles come with rules for enemy spawning.
your goal is to survive and explore, and longer term to figure out what is happening in the city and how to stop it. stopping it will require going deep into a heavily defended research lab.
there will be various missions and side tasks available such as searching for specific items or data needed by people who are hiding from the robots.
once you get the ability to download files you'll be able to search intact memory cores of defeated robots for useful behaviours: cards that let you draw or use more cards, for example. once you get a wireless uplink you'll be able to attempt to cyberbattle robots within its range, as an alternative method of fighting them.
power: many components use power to function. power is provided by batteries in the form of rolling dice. a battery's characteristics include the number of dice to roll in an activation (representing how many things it can be connected to), the number of sides (output cap), the maximum number of activations (storage capacity), and the remaining number of activations (storage level). batteries can be recharged (not instantly!) at recharging stations or by tapping into suitable power wiring.
dice: dice are rolled when a battery is activated from hand. component cards that use power will have one or more dice slots for dice to be put into in order to activate the card. the card will show if there are any conditions on dice that can be used, and how the value of the dice affects the result (such as distance moved, damage dealt, target range, shield strength).

i'm not sure how a multiplayer mode would work. co-op? competing via progress? full vs? arena battles? team control battles? there's many possibilities.